# shopping_helper
Final project to cornell institute (Milestone project)


Oportunity statement for the project:

A customer reaches to supermarket, collect items from his wish-list which is generally written on paper and then reaches to checkout counter where he founds a long queue and finally he checkout his cart after spending some time in queue. The long queue problem occurs usually when, customer buying so many items and they need to get those items scanned by machine for checkout and billing purpose, therefore this process consumed too much time and next customer has to wait until payment is done.


Proposed system will provide a solution to reduce queues in supermarkets and increase the customer’s average return at the aimed retailers. The application will disperse the customer’s scanning activity instead of centralizing it at the supermarket entrance. The Idea is to use a solution already implemented in New Zealand, which is the self-checkout machines , combining it with a mobile application. The customer will be able to scan each product while they are still choosing them at the shelves, once their purchasing product list is complete a QR code will be generated by the application. The customer must then scan the code at the self-checkout machine and put all products at the balance to check if weight is compatible with the list of products scanned.


Customers will have 2 options for payment, using the app which is going to have their credit or debit card number previously registered and using the self-checkout machines payment options (cash or card). If the customers use the system to pay, they will still have to go to the self-checkout machines to confirm transaction and print the receipt if they wish for, however the time spent on these operations will be significantly reduced, considering that all products have being already scanned and EFTPOS machines will not be used.


An API was developed to recognize fruits using AI as the customer is not able to scan fruits. Everytime the user is willing to add a fruit to the shopping cart, one will have to take a picture and the API will try to identify it. The dataset of images used to create the model for the AI is limited therefore it should be improved.

API file: read_fruit.py

Source of the dataset:

Link https://github.com/Horea94/Fruit-Images-Dataset

Horea Muresan, Mihai Oltean, Fruit recognition from images using deep learning, Acta Univ. Sapientiae, Informatica Vol. 10, Issue 1, pp. 26-42, 2018.

To run the project:

git clone https://github.com/caiovini/shopping_helper.git

Run it normally on android studio
